---
layout: default
title: Arunabh Ghosh
---

XLR8 was one of the first technical events in my freshman year at IIT
Bombay organised by STAB, the students technical activities body of IIT
Bombay. Many student participated in this competition in teams of two to
four. The goal of this completion was to build a remote controlled
robotic car that could overcome a variety of obstacles.

This event was the perfect introduction to college life. Apart from
being an excellent learning experience it was also an ice-breaker. Right
from planning how many wheels the robot will have, which battery type
should we use and then going on to execute those plans - the experience
of working in a team was scintillating and engaging. This was also the
first time we were exposed to the machau fundae of our seniors aka
mentors. They taught us about different steering methods, motor drivers,
ICâ€™s, different batteries, how to solder, how to use a Bluetooth module
and all other wonderful things that most of us were previously
unfamiliar with. With the large magnitude of people participating in
this competition the way the organizers managed the logistics is
commendable. In the end when you see your robot overcome those obstacles
on the track designed by our seniors it's a special feeling - a feeling
of true accomplishment.

True to its original purpose XLR8 was successful in creating a community
of tech enthusiasts in IIT Bombay. It was like a tunnel and all those
who reached the other end of it, definitely came out with a rejuvenated
tech spirit to achieve even greater endeavors.
